Hello, freak bitches.
I've always wondered what it's like when you are. Uh,
when you're beginning as an artist, you know, you're, you're idealistic.
You have all these ideas about what the future could be,
who knows it's all wide open. And then all of a sudden, many years later,
you are a massive superstars selling out arenas.
How difficult is it to find people who understand where your
head is at impossible? Do you,
do you like seek out other superstar musicians and talk.
To each other? I other I did. And I, I got nowhere there either. Really? Yeah.
I, I had a, I've had a hard time ever getting like good day.
Let's put it that way. Mm.
The freakiest thing was I saw how it changed my inner world,
meaning friends and family. How so?
My step-grandfather who was a world war II vet,
very closed down classic Eisenhower, Republican type of guy smart.
You know what I mean? Had literally zero interest in me as a kid.
I mean, negative zero interest. And,
and one day I'm sitting there at Christmas and now grandpa wants to talk to me
about the economics of my success. Whoa. And it's like,
like that got through to him because some guy at work or somebody at the
church brought me up and it was like, oh, that's my grandson. You know,
<laugh> nothing about childhood, you know, childhood tears did anything,
but that, you know, I saw where it warped the gravity in my family.
And then you get the friend, like, you know, you're different. It's like, yeah,
I'm different. Of course I'm different. You know what I mean? <laugh> I, I,
you know what I mean? It's like, I've got a million dollars in my pocket,
you know what I mean? Yeah. I could buy, you know. Yeah. I mean, you know, I,
one day walked into Beverly Hills and paid cash for a Ferrari and it's just dumb
stuff. Like, that's kind.
Of awesome though. Yeah. <laugh> yeah. I remember the people.
Don't like the idea of that. I think it's funny. Right? It's it's amazing.
You bought a Ferrari with money that you have on you. That's.
Crazy. Yeah. And it was, and it was the classic story I walk in, you know,
the guy didn't know who I was. Of course. He's like,
so how are you gonna pay for this? And I was like, cash.
You have a brick with you. He's like, wow. That,
that's just an awesome thing to be able to do stupid. Its.
Like, so I'm saying you go from like literally complete, not abject. Yeah.
I pop poor. I had no money. Right. You know? And then one day I'm like throwing,
you know, GS around for yeah. Dumb cars and well.
It's also,
you you've reached such a high level that there's nothing
above that.
Like I have the, I have the dote, my manager, uh, who was,
you know,
we were with the metallic guys at the time he called me on like a Wednesday or
something. And he said, I can't say for sure,
but more than likely based on the calls we're getting,
you're gonna be number one this week. Meaning melancholy. And I,
I literally said, is there a position higher <laugh>
Yeah.
Like I couldn't process that there wasn't like another step you couldn't keep
going. Yeah.
Yeah. Well that's what I always wondered.
Like when you reach a certain level and you're selling out these giant arenas
and you're one of the biggest bands literally ever,
you look at one of the top 100 biggest bands of all time. Mmhmm right. Arguably.
Yeah. It we're in there. Yeah. It's in there. Yeah.
Where the do you go? Like it had to be this weird madness. Yeah.
I would imagine that that madness is the only option.
Yeah. Madness sort of becomes attractive at that point.
God, that's gotta be so strange to be just crushing it,
selling out these giant arenas. Number one songs going now. What,
what the do we do? Do we.
Fade away? No, we went crazy. Yeah. We just lost our minds.
Like what happened? What was the process? Did you see it slipping away? Oh yeah.
Did you see the madness?
Yeah. Yeah. And it became, you know, it's like,
it's like a bad relationship or bad relationships. You,
it becomes a lot clear when you're out. You know,
at the time you sort of do your own rationalization like,
oh he or she's going crazy. Not me.
We all went crazy in four different directions. Wow. And this and the, and the,
and the great shame of, of, of my band was musically.
We were super tight and we never disagreed on music.
It was like this phenomenon where musically, we were like totally in sync,
we could produce and write music very, very quickly.
And it was always the other stuff around us. So that sort of ate at the core.
And then when, when we lost our personal relationship,
that's what diminished the musical relationship. Ah,
But you don't know it at the time because you sort of, I don't arrogance,
not the right word, but it's like, you have a sort of a, you know,
you got a little bit of a thing in your walk and you think you, you know,
you got the world by the, you know what, and all good.
You think you can power your way through anything because you have right.
You don't understand that you do actually need the people standing next to you.
I have such a greater appreciation for my man mates now that now that I've seen
what we actually did a accomplish in, in, you know, is surrounded by cast.
But then we created our own cast. And then at some point it all blurs.
What were the things that it up? Was it the money and the fame?
And was it the tension? Was it the ego?
Um, I think, uh, we were, we were like one of those bad, um, behind the musics,
the, it was very early convers. Um,
I remember we had these managers very early on and,
and they were coming to town, sort of courting us before we had a record deal.
And one day they came to town and they said,
can we just go out to breakfast with you? Which was weird,
cuz it was always the whole band, like, you know, democracy. And they said, um,
they said, uh, now who writes the song? And I said, well I do. And they said,
well, that's gonna be a problem. I'm like, what do you mean?
That's gonna be a problem. They said, well,
songwriters and bands make a lot more money.
So our suggestion is you should share your songs with your band mates to keep
sort of a, kind of a democratic stasis.
And they used some examples of bands who did it. And I thought, hell no,
I'm not. I'm I'm not giving them my work. I mean, it's my songs.
And they were like, you don't understand, you're gonna make a lot more money.
And I was like, tough. You know what I mean?
It's like live and learn kind of thing. Why'd.
They think you were gonna make more money because success.
Songwriters get, if you, uh, quick, uh, live lesson, uh,
the songwriter gets paid separate statutorily by the government than the,
than the actual copyright of the recording. So if you,
if I'm on Joe Rogan's label, you pay the band for the recording,
which of course in that case would be split four ways.
But you owe me a statutory rate as a songwriter for the sale,
which I think these days is about 10 cents.
So every record we sold where I was the sole songwriter,
I was getting 10 cents that they weren't getting, ah,
or 8 cents or whatever it was at the time.
So you can imagine over a gazillion record, sold it, added up. Yeah.
So I start pulling away financially. You know what I mean?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> but when you're a kid and you're 23 and somebody's having
this conversation with you and you literally don't even have an apartment
<laugh> right.
And somebody's trying to tell you how you're gonna make a lot more money.
It's like, what does that mean? Right. Fast forward, four years later.
And it's like, I'm making a lot more money. Mm. So that sort of sows a,
it, it organically sows discontent. Yes. You know, it's a,
whether you call it jealous or not. And then as I emerged as sort of the,
a tour and the big mouth in the band and maybe the person who was most willing
to be contrtroversy or whatever,
we'd get in a room with journalists and they would just talk to me. Ah,
and then we'd get outta the interviews. And they,
the band members would yell at me for them not being asked questions.
So it's like this weird thing,
like it was my responsibility to push them more as stars.
Or, yeah.
So it's not just about the music it's about being appreciated and successful.
And famous. Yeah. Now in hindsight and in fairness to them,
I didn't appreciate why it was important to them cuz in their minds we're all
equal. We're in the room together. Yeah. You write the songs. That's cool.
But at least gimme social currency. Right, right.
Of being recognized or yeah. You know,
or somebody would offer me alone a magazine cover. And if I was smart,
which I wasn't, I should have said no, only the band or nothing, but I was like,
sure, put me on the cover. I'll take it. You know what I mean? Right. And.
You probably would've saw thought they would do the same thing if someone came
into. Absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely. And then of course it becomes tit for tat then like, uh,
two of the band members went on their own and made a record deal. Um,
without me, they got somebody to give them a bunch of money to start a label,
which they had every right to do. You know what I mean?
So suddenly they're like making side deals and it starts getting all that weird
business and right. It, and now again, it's like an erosion factor.
You don't appreciate it from within, there's a lot of compression,
there's a lot of money,
there's a lot of stuff going on and then one day it sort of hollows out and then
it's too late, you know,
you can't just sort of sit down and have a meeting and make it all. Okay.
Cuz the wounds are deep and in our case, I mean the wounds lasted for,
I didn't talk to Darcy for 17 years. Whoa.
And I didn't talk to James for I think 16. Wow. So we, that,
I mean the heat was, was real. I mean we didn't,
there were lawsuits and all sorts of stuff and it's.
Such a common story that I hope someone listens to this part of your oh they
were.
As well. Well they won't <laugh>.
It's just human nature. Right. Is that what it is?
Power corrupts man.
Yeah.
And again, you know, no sympathy asking.
Well wouldn't today though. I mean it wouldn't today.
Like I feel like if you were in a similar position today,
you'd have hindsight in your favor. Oh yeah.
No, no I would. Yeah. I mean, and, and even talking about the band,
going back on a tour and the possibility of that, it's like,
I approach it completely different.
Yeah. See, that's what I'm saying.
Like power doesn't necessarily corrupt it corrupts.
If you don't know what the it's gonna do to you.
Sure. Yeah. But again, and I'm not,
I'm not preaching for sympathy, but the,
and I can't speak for the modern music business, but business. We were in,
in the nineties,
we were surrounded by people who were giving us wrong information. Mm.
Now were they giving us wrong information on purpose or because they weren't
bright enough. I don't know. But we weren't getting the right information.
Very few people actually try to sit us down and say, look,
this is gonna be a problem. Trust me. You know,
it's like you're in there with, at the hounds and there's just.
Right. And they probably don't have the time for psychological management.
Anyway.
They're probably in the middle of just trying to figure out how to make money
off you. And my.
My under my understanding is they and I, and again,
going back to the conversation I had with the executive,
they just basically look and they say, you've got four years. If you're lucky,
if you're lucky, so why are they gonna, yeah.
Why are they gonna spend a bunch of time trying to hold your hand,
knowing you're gonna lose anyway, what.
A crazy relationship between the record labels and the artists it's.
It's similar. I guess, probably to like the pit boss, if you're ha,
if you're having a hot run at like roulette mm-hmm <affirmative> and the pit
boss is just like, enjoy it now. Yeah. Cause we're gonna get it back.
That's what it feels like. What.
Percentage of musicians or musical, uh,
artists that get signed by, uh,
a label and put something out,
ever wind up having an actually successful career.
Probably less than 10%. Jesus Christ. I would say it's probably even smaller.
What a meat grinder.
Of a business you would think like, Hey man, we're on Warner brothers, dude.
We made it it's happening. They're gonna promote USHMM they're gonna push us.
They signed us.
And, and sorry to interrupt again. But the other weird thing is the, again,
the system I was in was even if you were successful,
it was set up to make you feel like you weren't successful. Right.
Because that was the work. That was the manipulation.
Yeah.
I, I once said to somebody who is a very famous name in the business, um,
it's like,
you guys find a needle in the haystack and then you spend the next 20 years
telling 'em they're not a needle in the haystack. <laugh> right. It's it?
What I'm trying to say.
And I'm not saying it well is you would think you would be surrounded by people
or telling you your talent. You're special.
We wanna help you because the more you succeed we'll succeed and will all
succeed together. It's was the exact opposite. It was like, no, you're dumb.
You're wrong. No, you're crazy. Don' do that.
You're gonna ruin it. And then, and even if you'd say, I wanna wear this hat,
okay, I'm gonna wear this hat. And when it wouldn't work, they'd say, see,
you should listen to us.
Ah, is that universal? Have you heard the other,
other musicians say the same thing? I.
Would guess it was universal because looking back, it doesn't feel personal.
To me, it felt like I, I, you know, use your bad analogy. Pimpo I don't know.
Right. It's a weird connjob thing. That was my experience.
It was a lot of Conn jobs.
That Courtney love, uh, piece that she wrote about the music business.
I'm sure you're aware of that. Was she explain, was it recent or no? No.
A bunch of years ago where she, it was,
I think it was actually before digital got really huge.
And it was, uh, a lot of people thought she had a ghost rider,
but it was really eyeopening to a lot of people that didn't know anything about
the music business.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> like where the money actually goes and how,
how much money has to be spent and how little you actually make.
Even though if you sell a, a ton of records, you've never seen this.
It's pretty funny.
No. From 2000 actually is on salon.com. Yeah. It might been one of the years.
We weren't talking <laugh> oh, there you go.
Yeah<laugh> Well it's for people who haven't read it,
it's pretty eyeop I've, I've, I'm, I've nothing to do with the music business.
I've always been absolutely fascinated as a completely objective observer.
Just looking at it, a gone. Yeah. This whole thing seems so crazy because it's,
if you do not get signed and if you do not get promot, at least until recently,
you had no chance. They,
they literally controlled the reigns in the direction of your career.
Almost like an actor. Like you can't make it as an actor,
unless you get an audition and someone chooses to put you in.
A film, but like a great Greek mythology type myth thing. The,
the music business has made two critical mistakes over the last 30 or so years
that led to its current sort of reduced status.
One was they let MTV run a muck on free content.
And when they tried to reign MTV and MTV basically told 'em to take a hike and
the music business back down. Um, so when MTV stopped playing music content,
there was nothing the music business could do cause they'd given away all their
leverage to the, to MTV. Ah,
and then the second was when Napster showed up and they acted like Napster was a
virus that they just needed to stamp out.
Not really realizing that Napster was just the beginning of a whole wave of new
technologies and new sort of social interactions or something.
Those two critical errors led to the music business reduced position.
And it's this music, I mean, music has been around forever,
but the music business has been around what a hundred or so years.
Yeah. I think we're into 120.
Plus years of recordings. Yeah. It's just amazing how,
what an iron fist they've managed to control the, the business with and,
and to sort of wrangle all the artists for the most part.
Well, it's weird of wizard of Oz, you know, you know, don't, don't, you know,
don't look by behind the curtain. Have.
You ever thought about being on the other side? Yeah, I have.
But I, I just don't have that much. I'm actually,
that's why I'm more interested in wrestling. I think I like that. I like the,
even though it's a sort of weird business, I,
I sort of like that because it doesn't have anything to do with music.
I have too much damage and too many, I don't think I could see clearly.
Doesn' it make sense? It's like, it's still too weird for me. Yeah.
Yeah. No, it does. It does make sense. It.
Does. When you first,
when I first came to LA and whatever 90 and had the meetings and you'd be in
that, that, you know,
hit the office and the people with the beards and everything. Yeah.
And they'd be like,
so when we put the product out and every time they would say product,
I would sort of winnce the product. Like,
how can you call my art pro you know what I mean? And that's, to them,
it's just, it's cookies and toilet paper. It's just, it's whatever. Wow. And,
um, and it's not to say they're not fans and they don't appreate, you know,
or they don't care. But at the end of the day,
it's just some sort of weird business, you know,
and like all institutional cultures that are sort of,
kind of corrupt at their core, it just sort of runs on its own show. It's just,
it just.
Does. When you see someone like chance, the rapper break out of that system,
do you,
do you think that that's a model that can be followed or is he just like an
outlier?
No, it's certainly a model that can be followed, but you know,
it probably works because he's so talented. It's like a weird combination,
right? I mean, use the McGregor example.
It's like how many mcgres are there in the world and,
and beyond being a skilled fighter, I mean,
the guy's an a level talker speaking from a professional wrestling standpoint,
the guy's probably the best promo in the world. Yeah.